Add Config SELinux for Repos on Custom Ports (#797)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_configuring-selinux-to-permit-access-to-repos-on-custom-ports.adoc

[id="configuring-selinux-to-permit-access-to-repositories-on-custom-ports_{context}"]
= Configuring SELinux to Permit Access to Repositories on Custom Ports

> SELinux permits access of {Project} to repositories only on specific ports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELinux permits access of {Project} for content syncs only on specific ports.
```

Author: reworded to avoid using term "repositories"

[id="configuring-selinux-to-permit-access-to-repositories-on-custom-ports_{context}"]
= Configuring SELinux to Permit Access to Repositories on Custom Ports

> ifdef::satellite,foreman-el,katello[]

Reviewer: Why this `ifdef`? If it is due to SELinux not being there on Debian then it should be done at another level. The whole procedure is about SELinux and doesn't apply to Debian. If Orcharhino runs without SELinux then again the whole procedure doesn't apply.

Author: Agree as in remove that line?

Author: trying that, removed it

SELinux permits access of {Project} to repositories only on specific ports.
By default, connecting to web servers running on the following ports is permitted: 80, 81, 443, 488, 8008, 8009, 8443, and 9000.

endif::[]

.Procedure
. On {Project}, to verify the ports that are permitted by SELinux for repositories, enter a command as follows:
+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes"]
----
# semanage port -l | grep ^http_port_t

> http_port_t     tcp      80, 81, 443, 488, 8008, 8009, 8443, 9000

Reviewer: I think this only applies to Pulp, not the entire project. Foreman only respects `http_cache_port_t` and `squid_port_t` if I read this correctly:
https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-selinux/blob/58f9b9b384d9a12338dfa7700b93c1d53e1e143e/foreman.te#L282-L286

Author: but using repos implies you are using Pulp does it not?

Reviewer: I can imagine that a user sees "On Satellite" and thinks it applies to Satellite in general. Then goes to Satellite and configures a default proxy and expects it to work.

Also, containers aren't really repositories but there it does apply (since it's Pulp). So I'd avoid `repositories` and stick to `content` or `content sync`.

Reviewer 2: We also have a custom port type named `foreman_port_t` which can be used for exactly this purpose: when you need to add a custom port. But it only works on Satellite Server, not Capsule. So I am good with using `http_port_t`, after all its a HTTP communication.

Author: reworded to avoid using term "repositories"

----

. To configure SELinux to permit a port for repositories, for example 10011, enter a command as follows:
+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes"]
----
# semanage port -a -t http_port_t -p tcp 10011

> ----

Reviewer 3: If the web proxy is running on a non-standard proxy port that is defined for some other purpose (8082, labelled us_cli_port_t):
$ semanage port -m -t http_port_t -p tcp 8082
(This means 8082 now has both labels on it)

I'm updating the upstream pulpcore-selinux docs with this too:

https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore-selinux/pull/42

> [id="configuring-selinux-to-ensure-access-on-custom-ports_{context}"]

Reviewer 4: file name and heading does not match the anchor.

Author: Thanks for review, fixed now?

= Configuring SELinux to Permit Access to Repositories on Custom Ports

ifdef::satellite,foreman-el,katello[]

> SELinux permits access of {ProjectNameX} to repositories only on specific ports.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
SELinux permits access of {Project} to repositories only on specific ports.
```
Do we really need to show the specific version?

Author: No, good point, will fix

> By default, connecting to web servers running on the following ports is permitted: 80, 81, 443, 488, 8008, 8009, 8443, 9000.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By default, connecting to web servers running on the following ports is permitted: 80, 81, 443, 488, 8008, 8009, 8443, and 9000.
```

Author: oh yes

endif::[]

> 
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Author: ok

.Procedure

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

. On {Project}, to verify the ports that are permitted by SELinux for repositories, enter a command as follows:
+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes"]
----
# semanage port -l | grep ^http_port_t
http_port_t     tcp      80, 81, 443, 488, 8008, 8009, 8443, 9000
----

> +

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
